index.md, before:

# Graduate Certificate in Research Computing

## Summary

Considering the growing prevalence of interdisciplinary, cutting-edge research that relies on research computing (RC) as well as an increasingly computationally driven job market outside of the professoriat, Columbia University must produce PhDs who are ready and able to meet these needs, regardless of their career track. In offering a graduate certificate in research computing, Columbia will continue to meet the needs of world-class PhD students as they distinguish themselves with their research. Additionally, the certification process invites participating PhD students to join the interdisciplinarily minded community of scholars at Columbia, enabling new avenues for distinctive research and collaboration.

With this document, we propose that the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, with Office of the Executive Vice President for Research, Columbia University Information Technologies, and the Columbia University Libraries, establish a formal graduate certificate in research computing for PhD students.

Our suggestions are preliminary and provide only a launchpad for the work of a more formal committee featuring the members of the bodies mentioned above. We imagine, however, a set of learning objectives similar to what follows:

* Describe and extend the qualities of exceptional research computing
* Analyze, critique, and question inherent assumptions characteristic of research computing
* Interpret, assess, and argue for strategies for managing research data
* Synthesize, defend, and support an ethically driven, critical computation
* Design, develop, and generate a computationally intensive doctoral research project
* Produce a presentation that illustrates and models exceptional research computing

Students will meet the objectives above through four modules:

* A stand-alone, required, for-credit course introducing research computing in theory and practice
* Supplemental, elective courses with a research computing focus drawn from already existing offerings
* Participation in non-credit workshops and training provided by the Libraries and/or CUIT
* Presenting, in public, aspects of their computationally intensive doctoral research project

## Curriculum

As stated above, the curriculum would be designed and overseen by a faculty-led advisory board. In the absence of such a board, we propose a provisional curriculum, where the Foundations bootcamps are supplemented with longer learning modules that introduce students to research computing. 

Next, at least one course for credit would be offered that is required for all students seeking certification. This course would establish the social and environmental contexts for research computing, especially surrounding research design and data management. Upon completing this course, students will be able to consider the effects of various research computing projects, including their own, with a critical eye toward greater accountability. A second required course could reposition the contextual concerns towards doing research computing “in public,” in the sense of how to analyze and present research findings with the public as an intended audience or stakeholder. The required instruction would also feature the Libraries’ CTL-designed course “Exceptional Scholarship with Research Data.”

Additionally, we foresee students’ taking a number of elective courses. These courses come from a curated list of courses offered every year. They would not be offered explicitly for students pursuing the GCRC, but the faculty would know to expect such students in their classes.

Finally, the certification process would involve a public-facing component tied to the student’s own research. We envision an event showcasing the work of the students with presentations and opportunities to host their work
online.

## Audience

Whereas the Foundations bootcamps are aimed at graduate students in general, in the first iteration of the GCRC, we are targeting PhD students in GSAS who are still in the coursework phase of their 

## Supplemental Materials

### Current state of introductory instruction in research computing at Columbia

### List of research computing focused courses in 2021–2022

### Analysis of the 2022 job market for tenure-track positions in Earth Sciences and Digital Humanities

### Comparable programs at peer institutions

## Etc.

Given the success of the Foundations in Research Computing bootcamps, a collaborative endeavor led by the Libraries with support from CUIT and the Research Office, the graduate certificate would build upon those foundations with a curriculum overseen by a faculty-led advisory board.

the opportunity for a university-wide
certificate in RC 

(why) 

who - advisers and workers

what

for whom


--- 

Notes:

Problem w/ summer institute is figuring out how to do admin.

how do you pay administrators?

CTL, SPS, and GSAPP have summer options

state-level grad certificate program through GSAS

this would be workshops but also courses

Mellon grant for summer institute? 3 years of startup cash?

Certificate in Research Computing:

* Advisory board
* recurring courses that would satisfy the cert
* contact depts and ask if we can send students to their courses
* contact chairs
* certification:
  * requires a curriculum
  * “if we did this this year,” how would it look?
  * a picture that convinces CU and NY
  * recurring accreditation admin lifting
  * needs support letters
  * begets a summer institute
* Pull job lists for stuff that would benefit from this cert (academic plus,
  etc., data skills needed for more and more tt positions)
* how is this not QMSS?
   * QMSS has alternate tracks, a few reqs, then electives in AMSS

What money is needed for a certificate?

Write for Ann, Jonathan, and Carlos
Executive Summary

Commit message:

Add paragraph about earth science grad situation.

index.md, after:

# Graduate Certificate in Research Computing

## Summary

Considering the growing prevalence of interdisciplinary, cutting-edge research that relies on research computing (RC) as well as an increasingly computationally driven job market outside of the professoriat, Columbia University must produce PhDs who are ready and able to meet these needs, regardless of their career track. In offering a graduate certificate in research computing, Columbia will continue to meet the needs of world-class PhD students as they distinguish themselves with their research. Additionally, the certification process invites participating PhD students to join the interdisciplinarily minded community of scholars at Columbia, enabling new avenues for distinctive research and collaboration.

With this document, we propose that the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, with Office of the Executive Vice President for Research, Columbia University Information Technologies, and the Columbia University Libraries, establish a formal graduate certificate in research computing for PhD students.

Our suggestions are preliminary and provide only a launchpad for the work of a more formal committee featuring the members of the bodies mentioned above. We imagine, however, a set of learning objectives similar to what follows:

* Describe and extend the qualities of exceptional research computing
* Analyze, critique, and question inherent assumptions characteristic of research computing
* Interpret, assess, and argue for strategies for managing research data
* Synthesize, defend, and support an ethically driven, critical computation
* Design, develop, and generate a computationally intensive doctoral research project
* Produce a presentation that illustrates and models exceptional research computing

Students will meet the objectives above through four modules:

* A stand-alone, required, for-credit course introducing research computing in theory and practice
* Supplemental, elective courses with a research computing focus drawn from already existing offerings
* Participation in non-credit workshops and training provided by the Libraries and/or CUIT
* Presenting, in public, aspects of their computationally intensive doctoral research project

## Need

During the hiring year of 2021–2022, we identified 29 assistant professor openings in earth and environmental science (climate science, geophysics, geoinformatics, etc.). Of these, 26 listings (90%) strongly prefer candidates with a research computing background and 9 (31%) require that expertise. Similarly, at Columbia, research computing fluency is a de facto requirement for graduation in earth and environmental science, but curricular opportunities for acquiring skills in RC are limited and ad hoc.

DH situation....

## Curriculum

As stated above, the curriculum would be designed and overseen by a faculty-led advisory board. In the absence of such a board, we propose a provisional curriculum, where the Foundations bootcamps are supplemented with longer learning modules that introduce students to research computing. 

Next, at least one course for credit would be offered that is required for all students seeking certification. This course would establish the social and environmental contexts for research computing, especially surrounding research design and data management. Upon completing this course, students will be able to consider the effects of various research computing projects, including their own, with a critical eye toward greater accountability. A second required course could reposition the contextual concerns towards doing research computing “in public,” in the sense of how to analyze and present research findings with the public as an intended audience or stakeholder. The required instruction would also feature the Libraries’ CTL-designed course “Exceptional Scholarship with Research Data.”

Additionally, we foresee students’ taking a number of elective courses. These courses come from a curated list of courses offered every year. They would not be offered explicitly for students pursuing the GCRC, but the faculty would know to expect such students in their classes.

Finally, the certification process would involve a public-facing component tied to the student’s own research. We envision an event showcasing the work of the students with presentations and opportunities to host their work
online.

## Audience

Whereas the Foundations bootcamps are aimed at graduate students in general, in the first iteration of the GCRC, we are targeting PhD students in GSAS who are still in the coursework phase of their 

## Supplemental Materials

### Current state of introductory instruction in research computing at Columbia

### List of research computing focused courses in 2021–2022

### Analysis of the 2022 job market for tenure-track positions in Earth Sciences and Digital Humanities

(include CSVs)

### Comparable programs at peer institutions

## Etc.

Given the success of the Foundations in Research Computing bootcamps, a collaborative endeavor led by the Libraries with support from CUIT and the Research Office, the graduate certificate would build upon those foundations with a curriculum overseen by a faculty-led advisory board.

the opportunity for a university-wide
certificate in RC 

(why) 

who - advisers and workers

what

for whom


--- 

Notes:

Problem w/ summer institute is figuring out how to do admin.

how do you pay administrators?

CTL, SPS, and GSAPP have summer options

state-level grad certificate program through GSAS

this would be workshops but also courses

Mellon grant for summer institute? 3 years of startup cash?

Certificate in Research Computing:

* Advisory board
* recurring courses that would satisfy the cert
* contact depts and ask if we can send students to their courses
* contact chairs
* certification:
  * requires a curriculum
  * “if we did this this year,” how would it look?
  * a picture that convinces CU and NY
  * recurring accreditation admin lifting
  * needs support letters
  * begets a summer institute
* Pull job lists for stuff that would benefit from this cert (academic plus,
  etc., data skills needed for more and more tt positions)
* how is this not QMSS?
   * QMSS has alternate tracks, a few reqs, then electives in AMSS

What money is needed for a certificate?

Write for Ann, Jonathan, and Carlos
Executive Summary
